Before we explain what
OKR is, what we will do
is, let’s analyze what
problems it solves.
Well, I think it’s a very common
or almost common problem that all
companies have and it doesn’t matter
whether they are large or small.
We could call it the
disconnect.
That is, the company has strategic
goals and then you have people
in the company.
You have a lot of staff,
etc.
Well, what happens is that many
times or almost always those
employees go to their workplace
and do things, do tasks.
And usually each person tends
to measure their productivity according
to having done those tasks
that in some cases he himself
has assigned or assigned
to his superior or whatever.
One day you go home quietly if you think
you have been very productive
because you have finished what you
have been ordered or the task you
have commissioned yourself.
Well, what happens is that there
is always a huge disallow
between the company’
s strategic goals, the
creation of real value and
what people do.
And in many cases there are a lot of
people doing a lot of things that
do them well.
They do it well, they do it in time
and they do it in good shape.
But what happens is that they don’
t contribute to creating real value to
the company.
And this is a nonsense because
in the end what you are doing is
having resources that are
not contributing to the strategic goals.
OKR also helps us to answer
many things such as how to
organize teams, how to distribute
tasks, how to assign goals,
how to follow up, etc.
The first thing I will do is explain
what it consists of.
You will see that it is a very simple method.
And after explaining the method,
we will review at the end
of the class what the main
benefits OKR has.
OKR is a technique
of planning and setting goals
and distributing those goals
in cascade throughout the
organization.
Basically it is that.
This is a technique that is
being used by the best managed companies
in the world.
Amazon, Zalando, Dropbox,
Facebook, all are using OKR.
And lately all the startups that
are the most innovative,
best managed companies, etc.
They are incorporating OKR.
It is clear that it has
huge benefits.
The pioneer was Google.
Google was the first
major company to start using
OKR to set goals, to track.
Well, how does it work?
First, I’ll give you an example
on the screen.
OKR is objective and key results.
Key objectives and results.
This is an example, right?
We have a goal and we have
key results.
Now I will describe each of
them, the goals they are.
In the goals, what we
determine is where we want to get.
They are goals that must be
challenging, aspirational,
that must be inspiring for
people, even motivating.
And we also have to make an
effort so that the goals are
simple, easy to understand,
etc.
Objectives are not measurable, they
are not quantitative, they are
qualitative.
And if we go back to the example,
we have an objective that is, for
example, we’ll think about a company
goal, right?
It is about launching a new product successfully.
It is something aspirational, it is something challenging.
This is a strategic goal for the company.
Now, I’ll tell you what
the key results are.
The key results are the
intermediate results that will
allow us to that goal.
In this case, they are measurable.
Basically what allows us to know
the key results is whether we
are on the right track to reach
that goal.
And if we go back to the example,
in this case the goal is to successfully
launch a new product and what
we have to do is define
key results.
It is recommended that it be, for example,
between three and five.
We don’t have to put too many
because then when there are
too many key results in the
end we end up losing or we don’
t measure any of them.
What are the key results to
a goal such as successfully
launching a new product?
For example, the product
is released for a certain
date.
We sell 10,000 units in
the first year.
For example, the NPS is
a percentage.
Have a good NPS.
We will, as you can see,
what we are doing is to break
that goal into key outcomes that
really allow us to focus
on those outcomes.
They are more manageable, they are more measurable.
More recommendations regarding
key results?
Well, keep in mind that the
key results are not tasks.
The tasks are, it is a lower level.
That is, to any of those key
results you will have to
do the tasks you want.
You have to define them.
It is a higher level, let’s say,
more detailed, more tactical.
As I said, key results allow
us to know whether we are on
the right track or not
to that goal.
Things we have to take into account.
OKR is a planning system that,
mainly, the main benefit is
that it allows us to align
what the entire organization
does with, everyone, with
strategic goals.
Well, what we have to do
is different OKRs at different
levels.
This is key, it’s like a waterfall,
right?
So we have to have an OKR that
is strategic.
Imagine they’re for the board of
directors or for the CEO, for
the company in general.
Like the one we’ve seen before,
launch a new product.
But then we have to go defining
the OKRs at the different
levels.
What we can do is
three levels.
At the level of the organization, at the
level of the company, for each of the teams.
You also have to have a personal OKR.
And what is very important is that
everything has to be related, because
otherwise we would not be
achieving the goal.
Let us see an example.
We’ve seen an OKR at the company level
before that’s successfully launching
a new product.
With key results, key results,
such as having launched the
product for a certain date,
having sold X units in
the first year, for example,
or the NPS.
Well, from those goals,
what we have to do is
define the OKRs of the
lower levels.
Let’s think, for example, of an
OKR for the marketing department.
It must be designed,
defined, so that the goals
above are achieved.
You probably understand it already.
In this case, the goal for the marketing
department is to successfully
launch marketing campaigns.
We will define the key results.
I would like to put 3 again, but as
I said, it could be between 3 and 5.
It’s usually a recommendation, right?
What do we need to measure at
the marketing level to this goal?
In turn, the strategic objective
is achieved.
For example, we have launched
marketing campaigns
for a certain date.
We have to work hard on this
because they have to be launched
at that date.
We would have to generate
100,000 leads in the first
year.
And what we need to do is
optimize the conversion
rates to reach 10%.
And so we would be achieving the
sales we had defined for the CEO
at the company level.
As you can see, it is encasched
at the company level, at the team
level, and then each person has to
have their OKRs.
It helps you to be permanently
focused on your
team’s goals and strategic
goals.
Now let’s look at how the time
planning of the OKR is.
How much is determined, how
is followed.
Well, what I want you to keep
in mind is that it is flexible.
It is usually recommended to have annual
OKRs and also a quarterly
OKR and to follow up on
a quarterly basis.
That is, you with the periodicity
with which you determine them, what
you have to do is sit down with the
people of each of the teams
and quickly have one, so that,
analyze whether we are on the
right path or not.
Because this is very important.
The OKRs allow us to know permanently
whether the entire organization
is on the right track, is heading
towards strategic goals
or not.
It’s not about evaluating
people, this is more strategic, right?
As I said, time
planning is flexible.
Because you could define OKRs with
much shorter deadlines for much
more concrete projects.
If your organization is very
dynamic, if you have many
projects in progress, you could
define them for specific projects.
The methodology is, as you said,
defines an OKR with a time limit.
It has to be, it has to make sense
to be aligned with the type of
goal you set with the deadline.
That is, if you want
a long-term goal, very
ambitious, etc., well,
because that will
stay in time.
All this is pure common sense.
What is recommended is that, with
the periodicity you have
determined, you meet with people
and an evaluation is made.
Then, a scale of 0 to 1 or 0 to
10 is determined for each of
the key results.
So what we do is sit with each
of the people and value
themselves.
This key result, how are you?
From 0 to 10, in a 5, in a 6, in a
such, in which, it is seen like this.
If all key results have been
achieved with a 10, it is probably
because we have set
unsettling goals.
We need to be more ambitious.
If, however, none of the key results
has been achieved, we are all
in a 1, in a 2, for example,
it is that we have not set
well neither the goals nor the
key results.
I think it is quite common sense.
And, by the way, another thing
I want to nuance is that OKR
is not an evaluation tool.
That is, it is not a
tool for assessing performance.
That is another system.
It serves you to see, to evaluate
the teams, but it is not
directly meant for that.
It is not intended, for example,
to condition bonuses or payments
or salary increases to the OKR.
OKR is a strategic tool that will
help us, as I have already said
several times, to align what
the entire organization does
with strategic goals.
It is not thought of itself so that
you condition what you will pay them
or, for example, the OKR.
Although, as you’re sure thinking,
when we implement this we have
a lot of information about
how each of the team’s members
are doing it.
This information will help
us to assess the performance
of each individual.
But it is not thought of for that.
It is not a performance assessment system.